Notes on Parmenides
GW Dean

Parmenides Ways (Marias-1967.21)

Method                 Object               Way
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
nous (mind)            the Entity (on)      of truth (way of "what is")
                       the Entity (on)      of impasse (way of "what is not")
sensory perception     the things           of opinion (way of "what is and is not")

The Predicates that Correspond to the Entity (on)

1. The Entity is PRESENT.
2. All things ARE Entities.
3. The Entity is IMMOVABLE.
4. The Entity is FULL (no empty spaces).
5. The Entity is UNCREATED and IMPERISHABLE.

These predicates are discovered by the Way of Truth.

The Way of Opinion (Doxa) moves within the sphere of truth, and therefore
can be truth or falsity. The extent to which one or the other exists can 
only be decided on the basis of truth.

1. Doxa relies on worldly information, information based on things.
The things transform themselves from one thing to another and are
in a constant state of flux.

2. Doxa understands this motion, this change, as a coming to be, and
this is where it is wrong. Being is not discovered by the senses,
but by nous.

3. Doxa is of mortals. Opinion does not have nous, the only thing
which is divine, immortal, as being is.

Parmenides interprets motion as LIGHT and DARKNESS, as an illuminating
and a darkening. That is, coming to be is nothing more than a coming
to be APPARENT.

Things which seem to come to be already existed, but in darkness.
Motion is change, not generation: therefore, from the POINT OF VIEW
OF BEING it does not exist. (caps mine)

Being is seen to be an essential property of things, what has since
been called a REAL PREDICATE, a quality which manifests itself only
to NOUS.

When seen through NOUS, the Entity is ONE and IMMOVABLE, in contrast
to the PLURALITY and CHANGEABILITY of the things perceived by the
senses.

In Parmenides' thinking, we see already beginning the division 
between the two worlds, the world of truth and the world of appearances.
The latter world is false when it is taken as true reality.

Parmenides Discovery: before all other determinations, things consist
of consisting.

With Parmenides, Philosophy changes from physics to ontology--an ontology
of the cosmic, physical Entity.

If the Entity is one and immovable, there is no nature, and physics
as a philosophic science of nature is not possible...If the Entity is
one and immovable, there is no nature, and physics is impossible.
If motion IS, an idea of the Entity distinct from that of Parmenides
is necessary. This new idea of the Entity is what Aristotle achieves.
